1️⃣ PROJECT TITLE

ECHO – AI Emotional Communication Companion

2️⃣ PROBLEM STATEMENT

Digital communication lacks emotional clarity. In our fast-paced texting culture:
- Misunderstandings damage personal and professional relationships.
- Tone is frequently lost or misinterpreted in text-only messages.
- People often react impulsively, sending emotional messages they later regret.
- Communicating complex feelings without manual "safety nets" leads to unnecessary conflict.

3️⃣ SOLUTION OVERVIEW

ECHO is an intelligent emotional bridge designed to strengthen human connection. By leveraging advanced AI, ECHO provides:
- AI-powered emotional analysis to reveal hidden subtext.
- Real-time tone detection and conflict risk prediction.
- Soft-rewrite suggestions that transform friction into clarity.
- A surgical strategy planner for high-stakes conversations.
- Dedicated Professional, Affinity, and Dating modes for context-aware advice.

ECHO doesn't just send messages; it refines how we connect.

4️⃣ FEATURE LIST WITH SAMPLE INPUTS

A. Emotional Analysis Mode (Resonance)
Description: Extracts the "signal" from the noise, identifying the primary emotion and intensity.
Sample Input: “You never listen to me.”
Sample Output: 
- Emotion: Hurt
- Tone: Accusatory
- Conflict Risk: High
- Interpretation: Sounds blaming.

B. Soft Rewrite Mode (Refinement)
Description: Gently adjusts the tone of your draft to be more constructive while keeping the core message.
Sample Input: “You never listen to me.”
Sample Output: “I’ve been feeling unheard lately. Can we talk about it?”

C. Corporate Mode (Professional Polish)
Description: Converts raw thoughts into professional, assertive, and concise English.
Sample Input: “Can you approve my leave tomorrow?”
Sample Output: “I would appreciate your approval for leave tomorrow. Please let me know if this works.”

D. Smart Reply Generator (Interaction)
Description: Provides situational replies across 6 different emotional spectrums.
Sample Input: “Fine. Do whatever you want.”
Sample Output: 
- Calm Reply: “I sense something’s wrong. Do you want to talk about it?”

E. Strategy Planner (Architect)
Description: A structured 4-step plan for navigating sensitive goals.
Sample Input: “I want to tell my boss I need leave.”
Sample Output:
- Opening: “I’d like to discuss a short leave request.”
- Main Point: “I need a day off due to personal reasons.”
- Possible Reaction: “They may ask about deadlines.”
- Closing: “I’ll ensure my tasks are completed beforehand.”

F. Dating Mode (Affinity)
Description: Advice for romantic intelligence and vulnerability.
Sample Input: “I want to confess my feelings.”
Sample Output: “I’ve really enjoyed spending time with you. I’d love to explore something deeper if you feel the same.”

G. Emotional Emergency Mode (Guardrails)
Description: Detects high-intensity anger and suggests taking a cooling-off period.
Sample Input: “I’m so angry I don’t care anymore.”
Sample Output: 
- Pause Suggestion: “Let’s take a moment before sending this.”

5️⃣ TECHNICAL ARCHITECTURE

ECHO is built on a modern, decoupled architecture:

Frontend:
- Structure: HTML5 Semantic Markup.
- Styling: Custom Vanilla CSS with a focus on Glassmorphism and dark mode aesthetics.
- Interactivity: JavaScript (ES6+) for explicit event wiring and dynamic DOM updates.

Backend:
- Framework: Flask (Python).
- Engine: Hugging Face Inference API / LLM Integration.
- Communication: Asynchronous Fetch API using structured JSON schemas for 100% data integrity.

How it works:
1. User interacts with the UI (e.g., enters a message).
2. Frontend sends a POST request with JSON payload to the Flask backend.
3. Backend processes the request through the LLM with few-shot prompts.
4. Backend returns a strictly-formatted JSON response.
5. Frontend parses the JSON and renders it into "Visual Blocks" for the user.

6️⃣ HOW TO RUN

Requirements:
- Python 3.8+
- Flask and Requests libraries.

Installation:
1. Navigate to the project directory.
2. Install dependencies:
   pip install -r requirements.txt
3. Run the application:
   python app.py

Access:
- Open your browser and go to: http://127.0.0.1:5000

7️⃣ DEMO SCRIPT (2-MINUTE WALKTHROUGH)

(0:00-0:30) Emotional Resonance
“Welcome to ECHO. Let’s start with a common conflict. I type: ‘You never listen to me.’ When I hit Analyze, ECHO immediately identifies the primary emotion as 'Hurt' and flags a 'High' conflict risk. It tells me exactly how the other person will interpret this—preventing a fight before it starts.”

(0:30-1:00) Refinement & Corporate
“Now, let’s fix it. I click 'Rewrite' and ECHO turns that accusation into a vulnerable request: ‘I’ve been feeling unheard lately.’ If this were for a colleague, I’d toggle to 'Corporate Mode,' where ECHO polishes my draft into a professional, English-only request for leave, ensuring I land the right tone with my boss.”

(1:00-1:30) Strategy Architect
“For big conversations, we need a plan. I go to the 'Strategy' tab and enter: ‘I want to ask for a promotion.’ ECHO builds a 4-step path: an opening line, a main point, a way to handle a negative reaction, and a professional closing. It’s a roadmap for success.”

(1:30-1:50) Dating & Replies
“In dating, vulnerability is hard. Using 'Affinity Mode,' I can confess my feelings with a prompt that is natural and empathetic. And if I receive a tough text like ‘Do whatever you want,’ the 'Replies' generator gives me 6 smart options to keep the conversation healthy.”

(1:50-2:00) Closing Impact
“ECHO is more than a writing tool. It’s a translator for the heart. It brings emotional clarity back to digital communication, making every message an opportunity to connect rather than conflict. Thank you.”
